docs/config.rst, before:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2024 Matt Williams <matt.williams@bristol.ac.uk>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

Configuration
=============

The native configuration format for Conch is a `TOML`_ file, passed as a command-line argument ``--config``.

If you are installing Conch via Helm with a ``values.yaml`` then these settings can be set under the ``config`` key, e.g.:

.. code-block:: yaml

   config:
     issuer: "https://example.com"

All the examples below show the syntax for both.

.. confval:: issuer
   :type: String (URL)

   This must be set as a string containing the URL of the OIDC issuer.
   It should be the path that contains the ``.well-known/openid-configuration`` location.
   For example, this could be set to ``https://keycloak.example.com/realms/example`` (such that ``https://keycloak.example.com/realms/example/.well-known/openid-configuration`` exists).
   The issuer must support `OpenID Provider Issuer discovery`_.

.. confval:: signing_key_path
   :type: String (path)

   This must be set to the path on disk where the private SSH key is stored.

.. confval:: platforms
   :type: Table

   The name of the table should be a string of the name of the :term:`platform`.
   It must contain the following keys:

   .. confval:: alias

      a short string which can be used as an `SSH config Host`_ name.
      You should avoid making the ``alias`` a resolvable domain name as it works best if it forms its own namespace.

   .. confval:: hostname

      a string containing the real hostname of the platform to SSH into.

   .. confval:: proxy_jump

      a string containing the hostname to be used by `ProxyJump`.

   For example, it might look like:

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

         .. code-block:: toml

            [platforms."batch.cluster1.example"]
            alias = "cluster1.example"
            hostname = "1.access.example.com"
            proxy_jump = "bastion.example.com"

            [platforms."batch.cluster2.example"]
            alias = "cluster2.example"
            hostname = "2.access.example.com"
            proxy_jump = "bastion.example.com"

      .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

         .. code-block:: yaml

            platforms:
              batch.cluster1.example:
                alias: "cluster1.example"
                hostname: "1.access.example.com"
                proxy_jump: "bastion.example.com"
              batch.cluster2.example:
                alias: "cluster2.example"
                hostname: "2.access.example.com"
                proxy_jump: "bastion.example.com"

.. confval:: mappers
   :type: Array of Tables

   This must be set to a list containing the identity :term:`mapper`\ s to apply.
   Each of these configure which claims (or combinations thereof) should be put into the certificate principals.
   The available options are:

   .. confval:: single
      :type: String

      A claim containing a single string should be placed verbatim into the principal list.

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

            .. code-block:: toml

               [[mappers]]
               single = "email"

         .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

            .. code-block:: yaml

               mappers:
                 - single: "email"

   .. confval:: list
      :type: String

      A claim containing a JSON list of strings, each of which will be mapped directly into the principal list.

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

            .. code-block:: toml

               [[mappers]]
               list = "names"

         .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

            .. code-block:: yaml

               mappers:
                 - list: "names"

   .. confval:: project_infra
      :type: String

      This will generate a principal for each of the projects passed in.

      ``"v1"``
         Create principals of the form ``<short_name>.<project-name>``.
         The prefix ``<short_name>`` comes from a string claim ``short_name`` and the ``<project-name>`` comes from each of the project names defined in the ``projects`` claim.

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

            .. code-block:: toml

               [[mappers]]
               project_infra = "v1"

         .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

            .. code-block:: yaml

               mappers:
                 - project_infra: "v1"

   You can set as many mappers as you like, just repeat the table:

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

         .. code-block:: toml

            [[mappers]]
            single = "email"

            [[mappers]]
            single = "short_name"

            [[mappers]]
            list = "names"

      .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

         .. code-block:: yaml

            mappers:
              - single: "email"
              - single: "short_name"
              - list: "names"

.. _OpenID Provider Issuer discovery: https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html
.. _SSH config Host: https://man.openbsd.org/ssh_config#Host
.. _TOML: https://toml.io

Commit message:

Add a `/client_id` endpoint to get the OIDC client ID
Fixes #49

docs/config.rst, after:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2024 Matt Williams <matt.williams@bristol.ac.uk>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

Configuration
=============

The native configuration format for Conch is a `TOML`_ file, passed as a command-line argument ``--config``.

If you are installing Conch via Helm with a ``values.yaml`` then these settings can be set under the ``config`` key, e.g.:

.. code-block:: yaml

   config:
     issuer: "https://example.com"

All the examples below show the syntax for both.

.. confval:: issuer
   :type: String (URL)

   This must be set as a string containing the URL of the OIDC issuer.
   It should be the path that contains the ``.well-known/openid-configuration`` location.
   For example, this could be set to ``"https://keycloak.example.com/realms/example"`` (such that ``https://keycloak.example.com/realms/example/.well-known/openid-configuration`` exists).
   The issuer must support `OpenID Provider Issuer discovery`_.

.. confval:: client_id
   :type: String

   The OIDC client ID that is configured at :confval:`issuer`.
   For example, it could be set to ``"clifton"``.

.. confval:: signing_key_path
   :type: String (path)

   This must be set to the path on disk where the private SSH key is stored.

.. confval:: platforms
   :type: Table

   The name of the table should be a string of the name of the :term:`platform`.
   It must contain the following keys:

   .. confval:: alias

      a short string which can be used as an `SSH config Host`_ name.
      You should avoid making the ``alias`` a resolvable domain name as it works best if it forms its own namespace.

   .. confval:: hostname

      a string containing the real hostname of the platform to SSH into.

   .. confval:: proxy_jump

      a string containing the hostname to be used by `ProxyJump`.

   For example, it might look like:

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

         .. code-block:: toml

            [platforms."batch.cluster1.example"]
            alias = "cluster1.example"
            hostname = "1.access.example.com"
            proxy_jump = "bastion.example.com"

            [platforms."batch.cluster2.example"]
            alias = "cluster2.example"
            hostname = "2.access.example.com"
            proxy_jump = "bastion.example.com"

      .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

         .. code-block:: yaml

            platforms:
              batch.cluster1.example:
                alias: "cluster1.example"
                hostname: "1.access.example.com"
                proxy_jump: "bastion.example.com"
              batch.cluster2.example:
                alias: "cluster2.example"
                hostname: "2.access.example.com"
                proxy_jump: "bastion.example.com"

.. confval:: mappers
   :type: Array of Tables

   This must be set to a list containing the identity :term:`mapper`\ s to apply.
   Each of these configure which claims (or combinations thereof) should be put into the certificate principals.
   The available options are:

   .. confval:: single
      :type: String

      A claim containing a single string should be placed verbatim into the principal list.

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

            .. code-block:: toml

               [[mappers]]
               single = "email"

         .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

            .. code-block:: yaml

               mappers:
                 - single: "email"

   .. confval:: list
      :type: String

      A claim containing a JSON list of strings, each of which will be mapped directly into the principal list.

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

            .. code-block:: toml

               [[mappers]]
               list = "names"

         .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

            .. code-block:: yaml

               mappers:
                 - list: "names"

   .. confval:: project_infra
      :type: String

      This will generate a principal for each of the projects passed in.

      ``"v1"``
         Create principals of the form ``<short_name>.<project-name>``.
         The prefix ``<short_name>`` comes from a string claim ``short_name`` and the ``<project-name>`` comes from each of the project names defined in the ``projects`` claim.

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

            .. code-block:: toml

               [[mappers]]
               project_infra = "v1"

         .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

            .. code-block:: yaml

               mappers:
                 - project_infra: "v1"

   You can set as many mappers as you like, just repeat the table:

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: ``config.toml``

         .. code-block:: toml

            [[mappers]]
            single = "email"

            [[mappers]]
            single = "short_name"

            [[mappers]]
            list = "names"

      .. group-tab:: ``values.yaml``

         .. code-block:: yaml

            mappers:
              - single: "email"
              - single: "short_name"
              - list: "names"

.. _OpenID Provider Issuer discovery: https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html
.. _SSH config Host: https://man.openbsd.org/ssh_config#Host
.. _TOML: https://toml.io
